In this lecture, we will start working on the button for opening the media library.
The user will be allowed to choose an image from the media library.
After selecting an image, the image will be displayed as a preview within the form.
The URL of the image should be stored inside the option.
These are the steps will be performing in this lecture.
Let's get started by opening the index JS file.
Our first step will be to select the elements related to this image.
We are going to be manipulating the documents, creating references to the elements will be helpful
for readability.
We have three elements.
First, we have the button for opening the modal.
Next, we have the image for rendering the preview.
Lastly, there is an input for storing the URL during the form submission, let's create a variable
called Ogg Image button.
The value for this variable will be the document dot query selector function with the ID of the image
which is ogg image button.
Next, create a variable called OG image container.
The ID for this element is the following OGG Image preview.
Lastly, create a variable called OG image input.
This element has an ID called up OG image.
Our elements are ready.
We can start initializing the media library below.
The elements create a variable called media frame.
Set the value to a function called WP Dot Media.
This function will initialize the media library.
We can pass in an object to configure the media library.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to the functions documentation page.
I recommend checking it out after finishing this lecture by interviewing the media files, WordPress
will define this function from one of its scripts.
Let's add in a few settings.
The first setting will be called title.
This setting will configure the title of the media library.
The title appears at the top of the pop up.
Let's set the title to the following Select or upload media.
Afterward.
Let's add an object called Button.
The button for selecting an image can be modified or going to modify the text by setting the text property
to the following text.
Use this media.
Lastly, let's set the multiple property to false.
Multiple images can be selected from the media library.
For our purposes, one image will be enough.
Setting this property to false will prevent multiple images from being selected.
After initializing the media library, we can start opening it by default.
The media library will be created but not be visible on the page.
It's hidden from the user.
This behavior is desirable.
We do not want the media library to appear until the user has clicked on the button.
Let's add an event listener to the button with the add event listener function.
The name of the event is called Click.
Next pass in an arrow function with the event object.
The button is an anchor element.
Anchor elements can update the URL of the page.
However, we're not interested in redirecting the user to a different URL.
To prevent this behavior, we can call the prevent default function on the event object.
After preventing the default behavior, we can open the modal.
The WP media function will return a reference to the media library.
This reference contains a method for opening its let's run the media frame dot open function.
We're almost finished.
The last step is to update the preview and input with the image selected by the user below the event.
Let's add another event listener with the media frame on function.
The media library emits custom events.
Since these are custom events, we can't use the ADD event listener function.
This function is reserved for events by the documents.
The on function will allow us to listen for custom events.
The name of the event is called Select.
The second argument is a function for handling the event.
Let's pass in an arrow function.
Inside this function lets grab the image selected by the user defining variable called attachments.
It'll have the following value.
Media Frame state dot get selection dot first dot two json.
We are training a long list of functions.
Let's go through each of them.
The state function will return the data related to the media library.
We're not interested in all the data.
We just want the image selected by the user.
We can change the get function to specify the type of data to grab from the state.
In this case, we're grabbing a value called selection, which stores the current selection.
Up next, we're changing a function called first to grab the first item from the array of files.
As I mentioned before, it's possible to select multiple images.
The media library will store the selection in an array.
Our plugin does not support multiple images, therefore we're going to grab the first image by using
the first function.
Lastly, we're converting the data into JSON.
The final result will be stored in our variable.
The attachment variable will contain information on the image.
Let's begin using this information to update the elements on our page.
First, let's set the OGG image container source property to the attachment slices dot open graph URL
property.
In this line of code, we're updating the image tag source attributes.
The value for this attribute will be the URL for the open graph size of the image.
After updating their preview, let's update the input by setting the OGG image input value property
to the same value.
An input value can be modified through the value property.
The page is ready.
Let's try testing our button for uploading images.
I'm going to select an image from the media library.
After doing so, the image will appear in the form as a preview.
We can submit the form to save our selection.
The image has remained on the page after the form has been submitted.
This is perfect.
We have completed our form.
It took a while, but you may need to develop an admin page for adding settings to WordPress.
In the next lecture we are going to look at an alternative solution to generating this form.